CONTRA EVTYCHEN

iu siuful desire«, and if his punishment for sin was
that, although he was held m charus os death, yet at
the seme time he should be guilty because of the
will ω sin, why was there in Christ neither sin nor
:3:331 “gfff hss‘uyffl-ffly Sssssvzsqssffi‘ffoffi
For if the body of curu: wae assumed from human
aesna, rt is open ω doubt ot what kind we must eou-
sider that ssesh to be which was assumed.

In truth, the nunhond which He assumed He
likewise saved ; but if He assumed such munhood us
Adam had before sin, He appears ω have assumed

Κ a hermu nature complete indeed, but oue wluol-

¹ was in no need of heuliug. But how mn it be

¹ thnt He assumed such mauhood as Adam had when
there could be in Adam both the will md ure desire
w ein, whence it carue ιο pass thet even aster the
divine commanda had been broken, he was still held
captive w eins uf disobedienee? But we believe that
u. curret urere was never any wiu ω eiu, because
especially rs He assumed suen e human body ae Adam
had before his sin, He could not be munel, since
Auum, hui ue uo: sauued, would ur uo wue have
suffered death. Since, theu, Christ never sinned, it
must be asked why He suffered death if He assumed
the body of Adam before siu. But it He accepted
hunum eonditions such as Adam's were aster siu, it
seems that Christ could not evei-i being subject to
siu, perplexed by passione, md, siuee the canons of
judgment were ohseured, prevented from distin-
guishing with uncluuded reason between guod and
evil, since Adam by his disobedience incurred ull
these pem-lties of crime⁴

Το whom we must replyu that there are three states
of man ιο euvisnge: one, that of Adam before his

123

